INSTALLATION NOTES FOR CALENTOOL - Version 2.2X, October 1991

1) Edit the file "ct.h" or "{I}Makefile" to tailor calentool to your
   site. The only things that should really need to be "tweeked" are
   the define statements for:

   SUN3_5       (define this if using SunOS 3.5 or earlier)
   NEED_CUSERID (define this if your C library does not include cuserid())
   NEED_DYSIZE  (define this if your C library does not include dysize())

   DATELIB_DIR  (directory for date/event files)
   PRINT_CMD    (default command string for sending file to PostScript printer)
   NR_WEEKDAYS  (for 5-day or 7-day week displays as default)
   START_HOUR   (default first hour to appear in appointment display)
   END_HOUR     (default last hour to appear in appointment display)
   START_YEAR   (first year to appear in year menu)
   NR_YEARS     (total number of years to appear in year menu)
   UPDATE_RATE  (default rate of clock updating)
   MAILPROG     (mailer for -m option)
   HOUR_24      (for 12 or 24 hour time format default)
   MON_FIRST    (for Sun-Sat or Mon-Sun week format default)
   N_NOTESLOTS  (default number of note slots)
   LANGUAGE     (for printing special characters in PostScript output)
   FRENCH       (for French month and day names)

   This just sets the system defaults. Most of these options can be
   changed with command line options or by use of the .Xdefualts file.

   If you want to make a smaller version of calentool, without certain
   features, uncomment the #defines for one or more of the following
   (all total they save about 100K bytes in the statically linked
   stripped executable):

	   NO_PRINTER (Deletes print raster and print Postscript options)
	   NO_HOLIDAYS (Deletes -h and -H options)
	   NO_SUN_MOON (Deletes Sun and Moon data frames)

   There are other options (described in comments) which should rarely require
   modification (all options can be set within the {I}Makefile if you prefer).

   Most of these options can be overridden with command line options -
   see the man page or the Ct.Xdefaults file.

2) Edit the {I}Makefile to adjust pathnames.

3) Edit the {I}Makefile, entering the correct lattitude and longitude
   for your location.  These are used to determine local time offset and
   rise/set times for the sun and moon.

4) make

5) make install

6) make install.man

7) If you modified paths in the Makefile, edit the FILES section of the
   installed manual page to reflect the correct locations of files.

A NOTE ABOUT APPOINTMENT FILE FORMAT CONVERSION FOR USERS OF OLDER RELEASES:

   If you are using a version 2.1 appointment file, it will be auto-
   matically converted to version 2.2 format. Once it is converted,
   it is not backwards compatable. That is, you can not use version
   2.1 and 2.2 calentool programs on the same appointment file.

   If you are using an ancient (pre 2.1) version of calentool, you will
   need to convert any old .appointment files to the new format.
   When calentool is first
   started, it looks for a special header line as the first line of the
   .appointments file.  If it exists, it assumes that this is a new style file.
   If it does not exist, calentool automatically converts your .appointments
   file to the new style format and rewrites the file.  When it does this,
   it assumes that the appointment entries are zero-based, i.e. Jan 1st,
   1988 is 88 00 00.  This was true for all versions of calentool prior
   to 2.0 beta and was the default in 2.0 beta.  If you are using 2.0 beta
   compiled with OFFSET set to 1, then you *must* use the '-z' switch
   when you invoke calentool for the first time.  This tells it to convert
   the file, but assume the input is one-based.  Subsequent invocations
   of calentool should not use the '-z' switch (although it will be
   ignored if it finds a version 2 file header).

	Bill Randle
	billr@saab.CNA.TEK.COM
	October 25, 1991
