IMPORTANT NOTICE

This is derived from TeX3.14 from the Univerity of Washington. To save
space, and to provide an easier orientation, I moved and removed a lot
of stuff, some is changed and some added. Of course you cannot assume
that you have something like an original distribution. This is
intended as part of 386BSD TeX only. Please keep that in mind and do
not redistribute the stuff here. If you want the original TeX3.14
distriution, see the various ftp sites that will refer you to
washington.edu.

For example I moved some documentation files into the web2c directory,
because they apply for web2c.

the README file contained here does not apply any more, instead all
the jobs described here should be done in at least an equivalent
manner automaticly from the overall 386BSD TeX Makefile.

Appended to this file are some other importent and good-to-know
informations derived from files in the original TeX3.14 archive.

Thank you
-Gunther Schadow


TeX is a computer typesetting language, designed and implemented by
Donald Knuth, Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University.
While the system is in the public domain, please note that "TeX", the
TeX logo, and the TeX lion are trademarks of the American Mathematical
Society.  The source code is also copyright (c) Donald Knuth.  To keep
TeX as standard and portable as possible, permission to use the TeX
source code is granted only if absolutely no changes are made to it.
Likewise, permission to use the "TeX" logo is granted only to describe
systems that pass the "TRIP" acceptance test supplied with TeX.

The main user documentation is "The TeXbook" by Donald Knuth,
published by Addison-Wesley (ISBN 0-201-13448-9).  (Look for the
phrase "second printing" on the copyright page.)  The source files for
The TeXbook are part of our tape distribution.  The TeXbook is
copyrighted, and is intended to be used only for reference, and to
provide examples of how to use TeX.  In particular, YOU MUST NOT
REPRODUCE THE TeXBOOK IN ANY WAY.  (If you have an old manual ("TeX
and Metafont, New Directions in Typesetting") you should put it away
where you'll never see it, since there are literally hundreds of
differences from the old TeX78 system that it describes.  There were
various pre-prints of The TeXbook, which should be tossed out, too.)

Everyone is encouraged to join the TeX Users Group.  Information on
membership is available from TUG, P.O. Box 9506, Providence, RI 02940,
USA (phone 401-272-9500).  TUG members receive issues of the Users
Group bulletin, called TUGboat, which reports on all sorts of
TeX-related news, including notices about who has installed TeX on
what kind of system.  Yearly dues are about $30.  Before making a big
effort to bring TeX up on a computer system for which we don't
currently have a distribution tape, it is a good idea to talk to other
folks in TUG with the same type system, to see if it's already been
done.  We invite everyone to submit items for publication in TUGboat.
TUG also runs occasional user group meetings, and TeX classes, as
announced in TUGboat.

There is also a computer mailing list called TeXHAX maintained at
Stanford.  It is intended to be a forum for announcements and
discussions of TeX-related matters.  Recipients include people on all
of the following networks: ARPAnet, CSnet, BITnet, MAILnet, UUCP.  If
you wish to be added, you can send a note to:
	TeXhax-request%su-score.arpa
if you know how to route a message there, or send a letter to me,
David Fuchs, TeX Project, Computer Science Department, Stanford
University, Stanford CA 94305, USA, and be sure to give your complete
network address.

Prof. Knuth offers a reward to the first finder of any bug in TeX, or
any mistake in the TeXbook.  Users may wish to consult "TeXbook Errata"
printed by the users group (and also found on distribution tapes) to
see if any TeXbook errors they find have already been accounted for.
Address any such matters to The TeX Project, at the address below.
