Rz and sz are Unix programs designed to support dial-in XMODEM,
YMODEM, and ZMODEM transfers via the controlling TTY port.

The contents of this archive can be uploaded to a remote Unix or
Xenix system by ZCOMM or Professional-YAM using the supplied
zupl.t script.  Connect to your Unix/Xenix system, select an
empty directory, and then give the YAM/ZCOMM command: "source
zupl.t".  This will upload minirb.c, compile it, and then use
minirb to bootstrap upload the rz/sz files.

Once these files are on your Unix system, you can type "make".
The Makefile will list the various systems it knows how to
compile the programs for, and the command to do so (e.g.,
"make bsd").

The Makefile is self explanatory; just say "make".

Rz and sz work best with comm programs that properly support
ZMODEM command and file AutoDownload (Pro-YAM and ZCOMM).
They have also been tested with PIBTERM and COM-AND.

The "GSZ" shareware program allows ZMODEM file transfers with
traditional DOS comm programs.  GSZ provides a "mini term
function" that supports ZMODEM AutoDownload.  GSZ (part of
GSZ.ZIP) and ZCOMM (ZCOMMEXE.ZIP, ZCOMMDOC.ZIP, ZCOMMHLP.ZIP)
are available on TeleGodzilla and other fine bulletin boards.

Rz ans Sz are Copyrighted shareware programs.  Commercial Use of
these programs is subject to licensing conditions detailed in
the rz.c source code.  "Commercial Use" includes use of this
program to transfer files to/from any commercial or shareware
program not published by Omen Technology INC.  Please print the
"mailer.rz" file, fill out the form and return same with your
registration.

Previous versions of rz and sz (April 1988) are Public Domain,
but lack the current enhancements and bug fixes.

The Man pages are formatted for those without Unix nroff.  For
best results, use less(1) (available on comp.sources.misc) as
your manual page reader.  Sources for the man pages are provided
with copies of Unix Professional-YAM.

May 16 1993: More bugfixes, POSIX support.  Tested on SCO Unix,
BSDI 1.0, and SunOS 4.1.2.  Code simplified to avoid certain
compiler brain damage.  (Some complaints about redefinitons
with some POSIX compiles.) (Void and Unsigned Long are required.)

Jan 2 1992: Documentation on the sz -T command has been
improved.  Please use this command and Professional-YAM to
diagnose file transfer problems before calling for support.

Oct 30 1991: Changed shar programs to aid net.digestion.
Rs and sz now use the same version number.

Oct 4 1991:  Fixed bug in rz crash recovery.

Sep 1991: Major hacking to work around SVR4 bug.  Append and
crash recovery of shrinking files corrected.  Sz now supports
rename.  Sz -c changed to zcommand, rx -c file changed to rc.

Feb 1991: various corrections and simplifications.  Sz now
stores critical error messages for post mortem display.

VMS systems are now supported with native VMS versions in
RZSZ.TLB.  The rz and sz in RZSZ.TLB support wild cards and
VMS record types.

May 1989: Corrections for undefined variable and multiply
defined rdchk() on some systems.

New for 1989: ZMODEM compression and other compatible
extensions have been added to the rz and sz programs.
Please read the comments in the rz.c and sz.c source code
for licensing information.


In order for us to handle problem reports, we must have the
exact error messages displayed by Professional-YAM.  If
transfers do not work at all, we must have complete results of
the sz -T test procedure!  If you are not using an Omen
Technology product to talk to rz/sz and have not registered
rz/sz, contact the author of the communications program you have
purchased for support.  Some heavily marketed programs do not
properly support the ZMODEM protocol.

Chuck Forsberg WA7KGX          ...!tektronix!reed!omen!caf 
Author of YMODEM, ZMODEM, Professional-YAM, ZCOMM, and GSZ
  Omen Technology Inc    "The High Reliability Software"
