Version 1.6 of NcFTP is an interim release.  Version 2.0 is much cooler,
but it wasn't ready to go by my self-imposed deadline of September 1, 1993.
The reason for that deadline is that my senior year will be getting under
way, and I don't want to work on the program during that period.  Last year
I spent too much time on NcFTP and other projects, and not enough time on
studies.  As a result, my grades slipped a bit.  Therefore I will be
studying more and programming, reading news, and reading email less.  If
you send me email, I _will_ read it, but it may take me awhile to get to it,
and I may not answer.  Please don't be offended.  I really regret having
to release code that is such a mess.  I should have wrote the code from
scratch, rather than built it upon the original BSD code (which is a mess
itself!).

This version is based on 1.5, which in turn was based on the betas of 1.4.
1.4 was almost finished when I decided to add some significant features, and
clean up the code so it is better organized and easier to read. That version
is called 2.0, and isn't finished yet. The innards are totally different
from the 1.4 family, so patches to 1.6 won't work at all on 2.0. During the
process of adding stuff and cleaning up, a couple of bugs creeped in that
will take time to resolve. Maybe I can work on it during Christmas break.

I apologize in advance for bugs I fixed in 2.0 but forgot to re-fix
in 1.6 (I think I got'em all, though).

Here is a list of things that are in the 2.0 code but not this version:

* Easy-to-read, better organized, commented code.
* Using my own "style guide," so source is coded uniformly.
* Unlimited global macros.  These are really nice!  They take arguments,
  so you can make mini-scripts.  The macros can be typed as if they
  were commands; no more $macroname crap.
* No-longer using .netrc and it's format.  This was necessary for the
  global macros anyway, and it allowed me to add some other features,
  like host aliases.  Old .netrc's won't work.  Sorry!
* Improved command line parser, that lets any command use > and |, so
  it behaves like a real shell command line (almost).
* Improved 'redir' that works automatically, can reformat listings with
  different ls flags, all without refetching it over the network.  It
  will also facilitate remote globbing... AND remote filename completion!
* Many little things I can't begin to list.

Keep that in mind if you want to make a feature enhancement.  I'm telling
you this now so you don't spend your time programming something that is
already done for the 2.0 release.  Also note that patches for 1.6 will
have to be re-coded for 2.0.  (The gist is that you should wait until
2.0 is done before doing anything major).
