NAME
       frame - Create and manipulate frame widgets

SYNOPSIS
       frame pathName ?-class className? ?options?

STANDARD OPTIONS
       background      cursor         relief
       borderWidth     geometry

       See  the ``options'' manual entry for details on the stan-
       dard options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Name:           height
       Class:          Height
       Command-Line Switch:           -height

              Specifies the desired height for the window in  any
              of  the  forms  acceptable  to  Tk_GetPixels.  This
              option is only used  if  the  -geometry  option  is
              unspecified.   If this option is less than or equal
              to zero (and -geometry is not specified)  then  the
              window will not request any size at all.

       Name:           width
       Class:          Width
       Command-Line Switch:           -width

              Specifies  the  desired width for the window in any
              of the  forms  acceptable  to  Tk_GetPixels.   This
              option  is  only  used  if  the -geometry option is
              unspecified.  If this option is less than or  equal
              to  zero  (and -geometry is not specified) then the
              window will not request any size at all.


DESCRIPTION
       The frame command creates a new window (given by the path-
       Name  argument)  and  makes it into a frame widget.  Addi-
       tional options, described above, may be specified  on  the
       command  line  or  in  the  option  database  to configure
       aspects of the frame such  as  its  background  color  and
       relief.   The  frame  command returns the path name of the
       new window.

       A frame is a simple widget.  Its primary purpose is to act
       as  a spacer or container for complex window layouts.  The
       only features of a frame are its background color  and  an
       optional  3-D  border  to  make the frame appear raised or
       sunken.

       In addition to the standard options listed above, a -class
       option  may  be  specified  on the command line.  If it is
       specified, then the new widget's  class  will  be  set  to
       className instead of Frame.  Changing the class of a frame
       widget may be useful in order to use a special class  name
       in database options referring to this widget and its chil-
       dren.  Note:  -class is  handled  differently  than  other
       command-line  options  and  cannot  be specified using the
       option database (it has to be processed before  the  other
       options  are even looked up, since the new class name will
       affect the lookup of the other options).  In addition, the
       -class option may not be queried or changed using the con-
       fig command described below.


WIDGET COMMAND
       The frame command creates a new Tcl command whose name  is
       the  same  as  the  path name of the frame's window.  This
       command may be used to invoke various  operations  on  the
       widget.  It has the following general form:

              pathName option ?arg arg ...?
       PathName  is the name of the command, which is the same as
       the frame widget's path name.  Option and the args  deter-
       mine  the  exact  behavior  of the command.  The following
       commands are possible for frame widgets:

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query or modify the configuration  options  of  the
              widget.   If no option is specified, returns a list
              describing all of the available options  for  path-
              Name  (see  Tk_ConfigureInfo for information on the
              format of this list).  If option is specified  with
              no  value, then the command returns a list describ-
              ing the one named option (this list will be identi-
              cal  to  the  corresponding  sublist  of  the value
              returned if no option is  specified).   If  one  or
              more  option-value  pairs  are  specified, then the
              command modifies the given widget option(s) to have
              the  given  value(s);   in  this  case  the command
              returns an empty string.  Option may  have  any  of
              the values accepted by the frame command.


BINDINGS
       When a new frame is created, it has no default event bind-
       ings: frames are not intended to be interactive.


KEYWORDS
       frame, widget
