Here are the major things people have suggested or I have thought of.
The first section lists what you can expect to find in the next release;
after that the entries are in no particular order.

--- Planned for 1.3 ---

There should be an option to output the current track name to stdout when
the program switches tracks.  (Requested by C.C.Boucher@southampton.ac.uk)
And other info, too, maybe with a printf-style format string.  A similar
option should determine which info is placed in the icon title.

As described in the ANSWERS file, WorkMan needs a setting to recognize
different pressings of a CD by allowing approximate matches.

There should be a secondary index file with pointers into the main database
file, so WorkMan can look up entries very quickly no matter how big the
database is.  [This will almost certainly be done using the Berkeley libdb
code, available from ftp.cs.berkeley.edu.]


--- And after that, some day... ---

There should be support for drives that can read digital audio over the
SCSI bus.  Most likely the audio should be fed to a NetAudio server.

A resource to turn on use of the SoundBlaster mixer on BSD/386 systems.

There should be a workman.geometry resource.

The track-selection popup menu should have a dismiss button.  Or better
still, playlists should be built with a less kludgy interface (maybe as
simple as selecting tracks on the main window or the CD Info popup.)

The default volume for unknown CDs should be settable on the command line.

WorkMan should be able to tell if another WorkMan has the CD open already,
and should simply act as a slave to the initial one if so.  Or at least it
should query the initial one for the current volume level.

The database access functions should do the appropriate uid twiddling to
allow the program to be run setuid root on systems that require root access
to fiddle with the CD drive, or that (like Solaris 2.2) automatically start
the program as root.

-ee shouldn't check for CD presence even once.

Split doesn't continue to the next track in shuffle mode.

You should be able to default to shuffle mode for unknown CDs.

The user should be able to attach arbitrary data to a CD or track.  The
simple stuff, like text fields (publisher, recording date, etc.) and
larger pieces of text (liner notes) can be input and displayed internally
by WorkMan.  For more complex data (GIF pictures, music videos) the user
will tell WorkMan the data type; WorkMan will have a separate database of
display methods, so it will know "run 'xv' with the filename as an argument
to display images of types X, Y, and Z".  The user, naturally, will be
able to add data types and display methods.

Check for changes in the play mode or the current playlist (if a playlist is
being used) as each track finishes.  The user should be able to play half
the disc in Normal mode, then switch to Shuffle and get the remaining tracks
in random order.

The HPUX version should use notify_set_input_func() to wait for a response
from the drive; that way the program won't freeze up when there's no CD.

Hidden/private sections.  A user should be able to split a track but ask that
the split not be saved to the main database.

The program should be able to collapse to a tiny base frame with just the
mode selector.  Or better still, with whatever controls the user wants.

Shuffle mode should be independent of playlist mode -- you should be able
to play the tracks in a playlist in random order.

Check the user's tty; if the idle time is more than X minutes, pause the
CD (and stop it eventually as above.)

Allow the main window to be resized.

Show the total running time of a playlist as it's being built.

Tutorial mode for first-time users.

Use gettext() for all labels and messages so the program can easily be
localized.

Optionally display the current CD or artist name in window title bar, to save
screen space.

If the user changes the volume and there's a default volume, the program
should interpret the change as a percentage volume change -- e.g. if the
volume is cut in half, other tracks should play at half their default
volumes.  Perhaps this should be selectable from Goodies, as it might
surprise people.

A "mute" tool or hot-key.  This can already be built with the signal
interface, so it's pretty low-priority.

Optionally lose the track selection buttons in favor of a scrolling list.
This will allow the window to remain a constant size no matter how many
tracks there are.

Optionally spawn off a background process when the user quits the tool; this
process will continue playing the CD according to the playlist, stopping
or ejecting the CD when it's done.

WorkMan should handle errors in a more elegant way.  Most of the time, if a
system call fails unexpectedly, the program will print an error and exit.
It should pop up a notice and let the user figure out what to do.  (For
example, the return value of save() is never examined.)

You should be able to double-click on track title to select that track
for playing.

WorkMan should grab info from the CD Info popup when it's unpinned.

There needs to be a better indication of tracks played already and tracks
remaining to play.  A Possibility might be crossing out already-played
tracks' buttons with Xs (which would mean replacing the button labels with
dynamically-generated images.)

We need a database broswing tool.  This should probably be separate from
WorkMan, though WorkMan might be able to invoke it.

WorkMan shouldn't make assumptions about the sizes of characters in its
font.  Right now, digits are assumed to all be the same width, twice as
wide as spaces and periods.  That's true for the Sun-supplied XView fonts,
but isn't very flexible.

An interface to Radio Free Ethernet would be neat.

WorkMan should accept keyboard focus, and you should be able to hit keys
to pause/play/stop/eject the CD.

Holding down the mouse button to the left or right of the track-position
slider should cause WorkMan to simulate the fast-forward and reverse modes
found on standalone CD players.
