NAME
       tk - Manipulate Tk internal state

SYNOPSIS
       tk option ?arg arg ...?


DESCRIPTION
       The  tk  command provides access to miscellaneous elements
       of Tk's internal state.  Most of the  information  manipu-
       lated  by  this  command  pertains to the application as a
       whole, or to a screen or display, rather than to a partic-
       ular window.  The command can take any of a number of dif-
       ferent forms depending on the option argument.  The  legal
       forms are:

       tk colormodel window ?newValue?
              If  newValue  isn't specified, this command returns
              the current color model in use for window's screen,
              which  will be either color or monochrome.  If new-
              Value is specified, then it must be either color or
              monochrome  or  an abbreviation of one of them; the
              color model for window's  screen  is  set  to  this
              value.

              The  color  model  is used by Tk and its widgets to
              determine whether it should display  in  black  and
              white  only or use colors.  A single color model is
              shared by all of the windows managed by one process
              on a given screen.  The color model for a screen is
              set initially by Tk to monochrome  if  the  display
              has  four  or  fewer bit planes and to color other-
              wise.   The  color  model  will  automatically   be
              changed  from  color  to  monochrome if Tk fails to
              allocate a color because all entries  in  the  col-
              ormap  were  in use.  An application can change its
              own color model at any time (e.g. it  might  change
              the  model  to monochrome in order to conserve col-
              ormap entries, or it might set the model  to  color
              to  use color on a four-bit display in special cir-
              cumstances), but an application is not  allowed  to
              change  the  color model to color unless the screen
              has at least two bit planes.


KEYWORDS
       color model, internal state
