NAME
       tkvars - Variables used or set by Tk


DESCRIPTION
       The  following  Tcl variables are either set or used by Tk
       at various times in its execution:

       tk_library     Tk sets this variable hold the  name  of  a
                      directory   containing  a  library  of  Tcl
                      scripts  related  to  Tk.   These   scripts
                      include an initialization file that is nor-
                      mally processed whenever a  Tk  application
                      starts up, plus other files containing pro-
                      cedures that  implement  default  behaviors
                      for widgets.  The value of this variable is
                      taken from the TK_LIBRARY environment vari-
                      able, if one exists, or else from a default
                      value compiled into Tk.

       tk_patchLevel  Contains a decimal integer giving the  cur-
                      rent  patch  level for Tk.  The patch level
                      is incremented  for  each  new  release  or
                      patch,  and it uniquely identifies an offi-
                      cial version of Tk.

       tk_priv        This variable is an array  containing  sev-
                      eral pieces of information that are private
                      to Tk.  The elements of tk_priv are used by
                      Tk library procedures and default bindings.
                      They should not be  accessed  by  any  code
                      outside Tk.

       tk_strictMotif This  variable  is  set to zero by default.
                      If an application sets it to one,  then  Tk
                      attempts  to  adhere as closely as possible
                      to  Motif  look-and-feel  standards.    For
                      example,  active  elements  such as buttons
                      and scrollbar sliders will not change color
                      when the pointer passes over them.

       tk_version     Tk  sets  this  variable in the interpreter
                      for each application.  The  variable  holds
                      the   current  version  number  of  the  Tk
                      library in the form major.minor.  Major and
                      minor are integers.  The major version num-
                      ber  increases  in  any  Tk  release   that
                      includes changes that are not backward com-
                      patible (i.e. whenever existing Tk applica-
                      tions  and  scripts  may  have to change to
                      work with the new release).  The minor ver-
                      sion number increases with each new release
                      of Tk, except that it resets to zero  when-
                      ever the major version number changes.
       tkVersion      Has  the  same  value  as tk_version.  This
                      variable is obsolete and  will  be  deleted
                      soon.


KEYWORDS
       variables, version
