NAME
       winfo - Return window-related information

SYNOPSIS
       winfo option ?arg arg ...?


DESCRIPTION
       The  winfo  command  is used to retrieve information about
       windows managed by Tk.  It can take any  of  a  number  of
       different  forms,  depending  on the option argument.  The
       legal forms are:

       winfo atom name
              Returns a decimal string giving the integer identi-
              fier  for  the atom whose name is name.  If no atom
              exists with the name name then a new  one  is  cre-
              ated.

       winfo atomname id
              Returns the textual name for the atom whose integer
              identifier is id.  This command is the  inverse  of
              the  winfo  atom command.  Generates an error if no
              such atom exists.

       winfo cells window
              Returns a decimal string giving the number of cells
              in the color map for window.

       winfo children window
              Returns a list containing the path names of all the
              children of window.  Top-level windows are returned
              as children of their logical parents.

       winfo class window
              Returns the class name for window.

       winfo containing rootX rootY
              Returns the path name for the window containing the
              point given by rootX and rootY.   RootX  and  rootY
              are  specified  in  screen  units  (i.e.   any form
              acceptable to Tk_GetPixels) in the coordinate  sys-
              tem  of  the  root window (if a virtual-root window
              manager is in use then the coordinate system of the
              virtual root window is used).  If no window in this
              application contains the point then an empty string
              is  returned.   In selecting the containing window,
              children are given higher priority than parents and
              among  siblings  the  highest  one  in the stacking
              order is chosen.

       winfo depth window
              Returns a decimal string giving the depth of window
              (number of bits per pixel).
       winfo exists window
              Returns  1 if there exists a window named window, 0
              if no such window exists.

       winfo fpixels window number
              Returns a floating-point value giving the number of
              pixels  in  window  corresponding  to  the distance
              given by number.  Number may be specified in any of
              the  forms  acceptable  to  Tk_GetScreenMM, such as
              ``2.0c'' or ``1i''.  The return value may be  frac-
              tional;  for an integer value, use winfo pixels.

       winfo geometry window
              Returns  the  geometry  for  window,  in  the  form
              widthxheight+x+y.  All dimensions are in pixels.

       winfo height window
              Returns a decimal string giving window's height  in
              pixels.   When a window is first created its height
              will be 1 pixel;  the  height  will  eventually  be
              changed  by  a geometry manager to fulfill the win-
              dow's needs.  If you need the true  height  immedi-
              ately  after  creating  a  widget, invoke update to
              force the geometry manager to arrange  it,  or  use
              winfo  reqheight  to  get  the  window's  requested
              height instead of its actual height.

       winfo id window
              Returns a hexadecimal string indicating the X iden-
              tifier for window.

       winfo interps
              Returns  a  list whose members are the names of all
              Tcl interpreters (e.g. all  Tk-based  applications)
              currently  registered for the display of the invok-
              ing application.

       winfo ismapped window
              Returns 1 if window is currently mapped,  0  other-
              wise.

       winfo name window
              Returns  window's  name  (i.e.  its name within its
              parent, as opposed to its  full  path  name).   The
              command  winfo  name  . will return the name of the
              application.

       winfo parent window
              Returns the path name of  window's  parent,  or  an
              empty  string  if  window is the main window of the
              application.

       winfo pathname id
              Returns  the  path  name  of  the  window  whose  X
              identifier  is id.  Id must be a decimal, hexadeci-
              mal, or octal integer and must correspond to a win-
              dow in the invoking application.

       winfo pixels window number
              Returns  the number of pixels in window correspond-
              ing to the distance given by number.  Number may be
              specified   in  any  of  the  forms  acceptable  to
              Tk_GetPixels, such  as  ``2.0c''  or  ``1i''.   The
              result  is  rounded  to  the nearest integer value;
              for a fractional result, use winfo fpixels.

       winfo reqheight window
              Returns a decimal string giving window's  requested
              height,  in pixels.  This is the value used by win-
              dow's geometry manager to compute its geometry.

       winfo reqwidth window
              Returns a decimal string giving window's  requested
              width,  in  pixels.  This is the value used by win-
              dow's geometry manager to compute its geometry.

       winfo rgb window color
              Returns a list  containing  three  decimal  values,
              which are the red, green, and blue intensities that
              correspond to color in the window given by  window.
              Color  may be specified in any of the forms accept-
              able for a color option.

       winfo rootx window
              Returns a decimal string giving  the  x-coordinate,
              in the root window of the screen, of the upper-left
              corner of window's border (or window if it  has  no
              border).

       winfo rooty window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the y-coordinate,
              in the root window of the screen, of the upper-left
              corner  of  window's border (or window if it has no
              border).

       winfo screen window
              Returns the name of the screen associated with win-
              dow, in the form displayName.screenIndex.

       winfo screencells window
              Returns a decimal string giving the number of cells
              in the default color map for window's screen.

       winfo screendepth window
              Returns a decimal string giving the  depth  of  the
              root  window of window's screen (number of bits per
              pixel).
       winfo screenheight window
              Returns a decimal string giving the height of  win-
              dow's screen, in pixels.

       winfo screenmmheight window
              Returns  a decimal string giving the height of win-
              dow's screen, in millimeters.

       winfo screenmmwidth window
              Returns a decimal string giving the width  of  win-
              dow's screen, in millimeters.

       winfo screenvisual window
              Returns  one  of  the following strings to indicate
              the  default  visual  type  for  window's   screen:
              directcolor,  grayscale,  pseudocolor, staticcolor,
              staticgray, or truecolor.

       winfo screenwidth window
              Returns a decimal string giving the width  of  win-
              dow's screen, in pixels.

       winfo toplevel window
              Returns  the path name of the top-level window con-
              taining window.

       winfo visual window
              Returns one of the following  strings  to  indicate
              the visual type for window: directcolor, grayscale,
              pseudocolor, staticcolor, staticgray, or truecolor.

       winfo vrootheight window
              Returns the height of the virtual root window asso-
              ciated with window  if  there  is  one;   otherwise
              returns the height of window's screen.

       winfo vrootwidth window
              Returns  the width of the virtual root window asso-
              ciated with window  if  there  is  one;   otherwise
              returns the width of window's screen.

       winfo vrootx window
              Returns  the  x-offset  of  the virtual root window
              associated with window, relative to the root window
              of  its  screen.   This  is normally either zero or
              negative.  Returns 0 if there is  no  virtual  root
              window for window.

       winfo vrooty window
              Returns  the  y-offset  of  the virtual root window
              associated with window, relative to the root window
              of  its  screen.   This  is normally either zero or
              negative.  Returns 0 if there is  no  virtual  root
              window for window.
       winfo width window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving window's width in
              pixels.  When a window is first created  its  width
              will  be  1  pixel;   the  width will eventually be
              changed by a geometry manager to fulfill  the  win-
              dow's  needs.   If  you need the true width immedi-
              ately after creating a  widget,  invoke  update  to
              force  the  geometry  manager to arrange it, or use
              winfo reqwidth to get the window's requested  width
              instead of its actual width.

       winfo x window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the x-coordinate,
              in window's parent, of  the  upper-left  corner  of
              window's border (or window if it has no border).

       winfo y window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the y-coordinate,
              in window's parent, of  the  upper-left  corner  of
              window's border (or window if it has no border).


KEYWORDS
       atom,   children,  class,  geometry,  height,  identifier,
       information,  interpreters,  mapped,  parent,  path  name,
       screen, virtual root, width, window
