batch	Output batcher.  It should work with B News, but not as well --
	it really wants to be told sizes of articles as well as names.
conf	Configuration stuff, including the "build" shell program that
	does most of the work of installing C News.
contrib	Software from other contributors, possibly useful but not really
	an official part of C News.
dbz	a faster replacement for dbm for news programs which generates smaller
	database files than dbm.
doc	User documentation, including "install" which discusses how to
	install C News.  Although the documentation is supplied as troff
	sources, no complex formatting is used and it should be quite
	readable even if you don't have a troff to format it.  We supply
	preformatted output for doc/install, as doc/install.out, just
	as a precaution.
expire	Expire and friends, including history rebuilding and active-file
	updating (neither of which is done by expire in C News).  Ought
	to work with B News.  Fast, and permits control of expiry time
	and such on a per-group basis.
h	Header files for include (see below).
hfake	Header files that your system ought to have but possibly doesn't,
	for include (see below).
include	Actually not in distribution -- "build" constructs this from h and
	hfake as required.
inject	front-end for relaynews to massage posted articles into RFC compliance
input	Input spooler and processing.  Includes the "rnews" that goes in
	/bin or wherever.
libsmall
libbig	Libraries for a couple of key functions that care whether they
	have a large address space to work with.
libbsd42
libusg
libv7
libv8	Libraries for details that are Unix-variety-specific.
libc	Stuff that ought to be in your C library but probably isn't.
libcnews	General C News library functions.
libfake	Stuff that might be in your C library, but might not be.
libstdio	Fast re-implementations of some crucial stdio functions.
	These are compatible with most Bell-derived stdios, and quite a
	bit faster than most of the pre-System-V ones (which includes
	those of many 4BSD variants).
man	Manual pages.
misc	Miscellaneous internal utilities and maintenance programs.
msgidd	Patches to add a "message ID daemon" to nntpd.
notebook	The C News Implementor's Notebook -- pieces of documentation
	aimed more at gurus than novices.
relay	Relaynews and friends.  The heart of C News -- actual reception
	and filing of articles.
rna	A simple version of readnews (by Michael Rourke at UNSW) for
	naive news users.
