        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 1


                  Instructions for setting up INGRES from tape.
                                   (VAX UNIX*)

                                (October 3, 1984)

        This  set  of instructions will help you read INGRES version 7 in
        from tape and get it running on your system.  If you are  running
        any  version  of  UNIX other than VM/UNIX release four, read this
        entire document before doing anything!, paying particular  atten-
        tion to section 5.3.

        *UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories.


        1.  Installing INGRES for the first time.

            If  you  already  have  an INGRES system, go directly to part
            1.3.

            1.1.  Creating a UNIX user called "ingres".

                The first thing you should do is to create a  user  named
                "ingres"  on  your  system  and log in as that user.  The
                files you read in from tape will be owned by "ingres", an
                actual  user on your system.  INGRES locates files in the
                system by looking in the /etc/passwd file  for  the  user
                "ingres".   INGRES  will  _n_o_t _w_o_r_k unless you create this
                user.

            1.2.  Creating parent directory for the INGRES system.

                The parent directory of the INGRES system at Berkeley  is
                "/mnt/ingres".   It is possible to run INGRES in a parent
                directory of your own choosing, which must be the  parent
                directory   of   the   user   "ingres"  as  specified  in
                /etc/passwd.  For the purpose of this document the parent
                directory will be denoted by "...".

            1.3.  Extracting INGRES from the tape.

                You are now ready to read the tape into your system using
                tar.  You should be in the home directory for INGRES  and
                logged in as INGRES.  Type the command:

                     tar xf /dev/rmt0

                The  system  is now fully extracted from the tape and the
                tape can be unloaded if desired.

            1.4.  User oriented programs

                In .../bin there is a collection  of  programs.   Several
                programs  are  type-I commands associated with INGRES and
                which should be moved or linked into /usr/bin.  The other
                programs  are  executed only by other INGRES programs and
                must be left in .../bin.  After moving the  files  verify
                that  they  are  still  owned by "ingres", and are in the









        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 2


                correct modes.  Move only the files listed below.   Leave
                the other files where they are!

                copydb, creatdb, destroydb, equel, helpr,
                ingres, printr, purge, restore, sysmod
                          (see INGRES reference manual for an explanation
                          of these commands.

                demodb    creates a new database with a name given as  an
                          argument  and  loads  it with sample data rela-
                          tions such as might be  used  by  a  department
                          store  for employee and sales records.  The IN-
                          GRES tutorial uses the relations  in  the  demo
                          database for its examples.

                It  is  imperative  that each of these programs be in the
                correct mode.  A sample "ls -l" is given  below.   Verify
                that your file modes agree with the listing.

                          -rwx--x--x 1 ingres . . .     copydb
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     creatdb
                          -rwxr-xr-x 1 ingres . . .     demodb
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     destroydb
                          -rwx--x--x 1 ingres . . .     equel
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     helpr
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     ingres
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     printr
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     purge
                          -rws--x--x 1 ingres . . .     restore


            1.5.  EQUEL run time library.

                The   EQUEL   run   time   library  should  be  moved  to
                "/lib/libq.a" or "/usr/lib/libq.a". The library is needed
                for  compiling  user  EQUEL programs. It is not necessary
                for compiling INGRES itself.  It is  preferable  although
                not  essential  that the owner of the library remain "in-
                gres".  To move the library:

                     cp .../bin/libq.a  /usr/lib/libq.a

                Refer to the  INGRES  Reference  Manual  for  information
                about how to use EQUEL and the EQUEL library.  There is a
                tutorial on using EQUEL in ".../doc/other/equeltut.q" and
                there     is     a     small     sample     program    in
                ".../doc/other/equeldemo.q".

            1.6.  Install concurrency device.

                If you want to use concurrency control, you will have  to
                install the INGRES concurrency program into /etc, add the
                command  to  /etc/rc,   and   add   the   definition   to
                /etc/services.   You  should  read the document "Instruc-









        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 3


                tions for Installing the  INGRES  Concurrency  Device  in
                UNIX" before proceeding.

        2.  General Information about INGRES.

            2.1.  Some comments on the INGRES directories

                The  directories (in ...) necessary for a minimal running
                system are:

                bin       the binary programs comprising INGRES
                files          files used by various parts of INGRES
                data/base/     user-created databases
                demo      used by the "demodb" command

                Several additional directories are also created. If space
                limitations  are a problem on your system you may want to
                delete some or all of the material here.  If you need to,
                delete  the  files  but  be sure to keep the directories.
                The additional directories are:

                doc       documentation
                lib       object file libraries
                source         system source code

            2.2.  Support for separated I & D space.

                On a PDP-11, you MUST have separated  I  &  D  space  and
                floating  point  hardware for INGRES to run under version
                7.  INGRES will NOT run on an 11/40  or  similar  machine
                under version 7 of UNIX.

        3.  Getting started using INGRES.

            3.1.  The Users File.

                In  order  to  use INGRES a user must be entered into the
                "users" file.  The users file  contains  information  re-
                garding  the  status  and permissions of each user.  This
                file resembles the /etc/passwd file, and includes the us-
                er's  name, the user code (used inside INGRES to identify
                a user), the UNIX id of the user, some status  bits,  and
                some  other fields.  These are described in detail in the
                document users(files).

                The users file can be initialized by running  the  "user-
                setup"  program.   This program installs all users in the
                /etc/passwd file as valid INGRES users.  The user code is
                assigned  sequentially  from  "aa".   The status field is
                initialized to 000000 for all normal users and 177777 for
                the user "ingres".

                To setup the users file in /mnt/ingres execute:










        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 4


                     .../bin/usersetup

                Once  created  the users file can be edited using "ed" to
                do the following things:

                        - completely remove all users not  authorized  to
                        execute INGRES.

                        -   restrict  a  user  from  using  a  particular
                        database.

                        - set  the  other  status  bits  for  appropriate
                        users.

                As  UNIX  users are added or deleted, the users file must
                be updated appropriately.  The usersetup program  can  be
                executed only once.  A diagnostic is issued if it is exe-
                cuted a second time.

            3.2.  Creating a Sample Data Base

                The "demodb" command provided can be  used  to  construct
                the sample database on which the examples in the tutorial
                (located on-line in ".../doc/other/tutorial") are  based.
                In order to execute this command you must be entered into
                the users file and have permission to create a  database.
                To create the sample database and assign it the name "de-
                mo" type the command:

                     demodb demo

                In order to use INGRES with this database you need merely
                type

                     ingres demo

                and  you will be ready to follow the terminal session de-
                scribed in the tutorial or to formulate your own queries.

                To  create  your own copy of the same sample database use
                some unique database name.

                     demodb mydemo


            3.3.  Creating Other Data Bases.

                You will no doubt wish to create other databases of  your
                own  and  for  this  you  will need to use "creatdb".  In
                order to use this command you must be authorized  in  the
                users file.

            3.4.  Concurrency Control.










        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 5


                INGRES is designed to run with either no concurrency con-
                trol or with full concurrency control.  INGRES locks por-
                tions  of a database by using a user level process called
                /etc/ingreslock.  Initially you can  use  INGRES  without
                this  special  process.   If you want concurrency control
                (if more than one person will be using INGRES on the same
                database at the same time, you MUST have it) then print a
                copy of the instructions on how to install the concurren-
                cy device:

                        nroff .../doc/other/lockdev.nr


        4.  Hints and suggestions.


            4.1.  Unix Protection Problems.

                If  you  encounter  problems  in  creating directories or
                reading in files from the tape check the protection  sta-
                tus  of the parent directories involved to make sure that
                permission to write new files exists.

                The following summarizes the proper modes for each direc-
                tory.  All directories are owned by INGRES except the in-
                dividual databases.  (The modes in parentheses  represent
                the  mode to be used if you wish to restrict access maxi-
                mally.)

                     bin       755
                     data      700
                     data/base 777
                     demo      755
                     doc       755
                     files          755
                     lib       755
                     source and all its subdirectories  755 (700)
                     any database   777 (typically owned by the dba)

                The programs in .../bin should be in the following modes:

                     -rwxr-x--x 1 ingres . . .     monitor
                     -rwsr----- 1 ingres . . .     vaxingres

                You  may  need  to  become  super-user  to  add  files in
                "/usr/bin".

            4.2.  Upper Case Only Terminals

                Remember if you are using an upper-case-only terminal you
                will  have to use a double backslash "\\" with all termi-
                nal monitor commands in order to override the interpreta-
                tion  of  "\"  as an escape character.  For example on an
                upper and lower case terminal you would type:









        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 6


                     help parts
                     \g

                while on an upper case only terminal you would type:

                     HELP PARTS
                     \\G


        5.  Source code and system regeneration

            5.1.  Log on as user "ingres".

                When doing any system work always log on as "ingres".

            5.2.  Recompilation.

                All source code for the system is located in ".../source"
                and various sub-directories therein. Each subdirectory is
                named for a functional component or sub-component of  the
                system.   Makefiles for regenerating the various portions
                of the system from source are located in  the  associated
                directory.  To regenerate a particular module (e.g. pars-
                er) say:

                     chdir .../source/parser
                     make

                The entire system can  be  recompiled  and  installed  in
                /usr/bin using the command:

                     chdir .../source/conf
                     make allinstall sysinstall

                When  recompiling  for  the first time it is strongly ad-
                vised that you use a hard copy terminal or save the  out-
                put in some other manner.

                Libraries of object code are maintained in .../lib.

                You  may find that your C compiler cannot compile INGRES.
                If this is true, you will have to increase  the  size  of
                the symbol table in cpp.


            5.3.  Compilation Flags and Funny Flavored UNIXes.

                If  you are running any system other than VM/UNIX release
                4.2 (4.2BSD), you may have to recompile the INGRES system
                before  it is usable.  Examine the file .../source/unix.h
                closely for correspondence with your version of  reality.
                Major  problems  include representation of user and group
                id's and structures returned by various system calls.










        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 7


                Four compile flags in unix.h define the type of user id's
                used  on  your  system.  For a vanilla version six system
                with 8-bit user  id's  and  8-bit  group  id's,  set  the
                xV6_UNIX  compilation  flag.   For a Berkeley version six
                system with a single 16-bit user id (and  no  group  id),
                set  the  xB_UNIX flag.  For a vanilla version seven sys-
                tem, chocolate version six  system,  or  VM/UNIX  system,
                with 16-bit user id's and 16-bit group id's set xV7_UNIX.
                Also, define either VAX or PDP11 depending on whether you
                are on a PDP-11 or a VAX.

                A  large  set of flags in ingres.h control compilation of
                trace information and timing  estimates.   Flags  of  the
                form  "x?TM"  (where  "?" is a letter as described below)
                turn on timing information.  THESE SHOULD ALWAYS BE  LEFT
                OFF,  since  the  system  you receive on the distribution
                tape does not include everything necessary to successful-
                ly  use these flags.  Flags of the form "x?TR1", "x?TR2",
                and "x?TR3" are trace compilation flags.  Compiling these
                in  does  not automatically make trace information print,
                but only makes it available.  These flags must be proper-
                ly  nested; for example, if xMTR2 is set, xMTR1 must also
                be set (but xMTR3 is optional).   The  letter  codes  for
                these flags are as follows:

                     A    Access Methods
                     M    Terminal Monitor
                     P    Parser
                     Q    Qrymod
                     D    Decomposition
                     O    One Variable Query Processor
                     Z    Data Base Utilities
                     E    Equel
                     S    Scanner
                     T    Standalone Routines

                A  flag named DISTRIB is used in some places in the code.
                This is used in  the  yet-to-be-born  Distributed  INGRES
                system, and should always be left off.

                Touching any other defined constants should be considered
                extremely dangerous and is  done  strictly  at  your  own
                risk.


        6.  Documentation.

            6.1.  Tutorial on INGRES.

                A   tutorial   on   using   INGRES   can   be   found  in
                ".../doc/other/tutorial.nr". A copy of the  document  can
                be produced by:

                     nroff .../doc/other/tutorial.nr









        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 8



                The  tutorial guides the reader through examples of using
                QUEL the INGRES database language.  A  basic  familiarity
                with UNIX is assumed.

            6.2.  Reference Manual.

                The  reference manual consists of a number of files - one
                for each command or feature in INGRES. The reference man-
                ual  can  be  retrieved  by  using  the help command (see
                help(quel)).  A complete copy of the manual can be print-
                ed on the line printer by:

                     chdir .../doc      make ref

                The complete manual is about 80 pages.


            6.3.  Maintenance Manual.

                A  guide  to  using INGRES has been written and is called
                "Creating and Maintaining a Database Using  INGRES".   It
                includes  information  about  creating databases, storage
                structures, recovery, copy, indices and other useful  in-
                formation.  A copy of the manual can be produced by:

                     nroff .../doc/other/maintain.nr


            6.4.  Design of INGRES

                A  draft  of the report "The Design and Implementation of
                INGRES" by Stonebraker, Kreps and Held can  be  found  in
                ".../doc/other/design.roff". It can be printed by:

                     roff .../doc/other/design.roff

                The  report  gives  a  fairly detailed description of the
                structure and capabilities of the entire system as it ex-
                isted  over  eight years ago, in January 1976.  _I_t _i_s _o_u_t
                _o_f _d_a_t_e _i_n _m_a_n_y _a_r_e_a_s.  It gives  implementation  details
                and algorithms of important system modules.


            6.5.  Internal Documentation.

                We  currently do not provide, nor have we written any in-
                ternal documentation beyond what is mentioned in the "De-
                sign and Implementation" paper.

                This document itself can be reproduced by doing:

                     nroff .../doc/other/howto_setup.nr










        HOW TO SET UP INGRES                                       PAGE 9



        7.  Consulting

            The  INGRES  project is not set up to supply regular consult-
            ing.  If you do have problems, please reread  these  instruc-
            tions  carefully; over two thirds of the "bug reports" we re-
            ceive can be answered by re-reading the  documentation.   For
            non-technical  questions (e.g., regarding availability of the
            system or documentation) please call the project secretary at
            (415) 642-2344.  I can also be reached through this number.


                  Joe Kalash
                  Electronics Research Laboratory
                  University of California
                  Berkeley, California  94720












































