File: sather/doc/BUG_REPORT
Author: Jeff Bilmes
Created: Tue Jun 18 14:25:36 1991
Copyright (C) International Computer Science Institute, 1991

As the name implies, this document describes what should be included
in a bug report. Even if you are not sure you are describing a bug,
please follow these conventions so that we can quickly check things
out and get back to you.

Compiler Bugs: -----------------------

First, include all code relating to the bug that is not part of the
distribution. If we don't have the code that produces the bug, we might
not be able to reproduce it and will not be able to fix it.

Second, try to trim the amount of code and isolate the bug as much as
possible. This means to cut out any classes, functions, and
statements that are unrelated to the bug. Fit the code into what
could be used as one file. If possible, make that file fit on 
one page. Also, make sure that any line numbers referenced by
the compiler output are clearly identifyable in the code you
include. Maybe annotate the code with something like:

	lf:LIST{FOO} := lf.new; -- line 34

Third, include a .sather file with the bug report. Sometimes, the bug
may have to do with some of the files or options given in the .sather
file. Annotate the .sather file as necessary.

Forth, include the compiler command line options that were used to compile
the program. If applicable, include a script that includes how you ran
the compiler and the compiler output.

Fifth, include the machine architecture, the vender, the operating system
and OS version number.

Sixth, include any other relevant information you might think of. For 
example, are you using gcc instead of cc, ...

Debugger Bugs: -----------------------

Follow the steps for the compiler bugs. Also include a script with the
debugger output that shows how and where the debugger fails.

Emacs environment bugs:  -----------------------

Again, follow the steps for the compiler bugs. Include all emacs
error messages, the version of emacs (or epoch), and any additional
information you can think of.


Most of all, thank yourself for contributing the bug report. We welcome
these reports and always wish to improve the Sather compiler.


		Jeff Bilmes
		International Computer Science Institute
