	      Zircon Frequently Asked Questions
			October 1993

1) Where can I find Zircon?

You can always ftp the latest version of Zircon from
catless.ncl.ac.uk.  It lives in the pub directory.  Zircon can also be
found at various other sites, but these may not have the latest
version.  You can also get hold of the latest version from ZirconBot.
This is a VladBot derivative and can send you files using dcc.  Access
it by giving the command /msg ZirconBot !help

2) What else do I need?

Zircon is written using the tcl/tk language and the tcl-dp TCP/IP
extensions to tcl.  tcl is a fantastic language and is rapidly becoming
used everywhere.  If it is not already on your system then you can find
the latest version on harbor.ecn.purdue.edu in the /pub/tcl directory
tree.  You will also find lots of other interesting stuff there as
well.  tcl-dp can be found on harbor but it is also available from
catless (as are tcl 7.0 and tk 3.3).

3) Hey, that's a lot of code!

Well, yes it is, but once you have built the dpwish program you don't
need any of it.  However, you would be strongly advised to keep it
around as lots of other great programs are becoming available written
in tcl.  Best of all convince your sysadmin to put tcl up officially at
your site (there are some really neat sys admin tools written in
tcl....)

4) Why isn't Zircon written in C?

Because it is isn't.  You try writing a program as powerful as Zircon in
C and X in the time it took me to write Zircon.  tcl easily gives an
order of magnitude implementation time improvement.  I wanted to learn
tcl/tk and this was the best way to do it.

5) But tcl is interpreted, so isn't it slow?

No.  And even it were to become slow I could migrate selected parts of
the program into C.  This is what tcl is designed for and it does the
job fantastically well.

6) You like tcl don't you?

I think it is the best thing I have seen in years.

7) Is anyone else using Zircon?

Yes, lots of people.  You can find some of us on the #zircon channel
most days.  We can answer your questions and help with installation
problems (not that you will have any :-))

8) I can't get tcl (or tk or tcl-dp) to install.  Help!

Er, check your configuration.  You probably haven't got something set
quite right.  If you really can't fix it try the comp.lang.tcl
newsgroup for help, you never know it might be a real bug!

9) OK, I installed Zircon and I can't type "zircon", I have to
   say "dpwish -f zircon", what gives?

The #! line at the start of your zircon file is more than 31
characters long.  Shorten the pathname to dpwish until it works.....
Alternatively, you have the wrong pathname in the #! line - make sure it
actually matches where the program is installed...

10) I ran Zircon and nothing happened.

Have you set up the system rc file to contain your default server host
and port number?  Ah, I thought not...  And while you're at it have you
set up a .zirconrc file for yourself with your nick in it and things
like that?  Best do it now, OK?

11) Ugh I don't like the way that it looks!

OK, so change it.  Pretty well all aspects of fonts and colours are
configurable using X resources.  In fact you can do some rather hairy
things if you put your mind to and don't have sufficient taste...

12) Too many windows!!

Hey, why did you want an X-11 client then?  If you really have to be on
lots of channels use the pop-up and pop-down features to make sure
that windows are only open when they are active.

13) Why is it called Zircon?

Ask Jimbles.  He thought of the name.  Me?  I would have called it
Torquil or Melissa or something.

14) Hey, someone has the nick Zircon!

Not related in anyway to the Zircon program.  She/He might get a bit
sick of being asked questions though......

15) Some guy on the net says Zircon sucks, what do you say?

I say try it for yourself.  A lot of people have and a lot of people
like it.

16) I have a feature I would like added.....

Tell me about it and if it is any good I will add it.  Chances are it
is already in there somewhere anyway!

17) The documentation is lousy!

Give me a break, OK?  You want a program or you want a manual?  It will
get better I promise.  You might even get an integral hypertext help
system.  (The hypertext is easy, writing the help info is the pain!)

18) Will I lose my hand-edited additions to my .zirconrc file when I
save the configuration?

It depends what they are!! If they are outwith what is handled by the
configuration stuff then you will lose them. However, zircon carefulyl
saves your old rc file in .zirconrc.bak so you havent lost them
really...

19) Where can I get the IRC Primer/other guidance on using IRC

Err, umm, go ask archie.....

20) When I run two zircons the second one deosnt seem to see the
resources I have set!

Yup, this seems to be some kind of tk problem to do with interpreter
naming. I am lookign for a fix....



