Since  the regular  documentation  is rather detailed,   this  will be
almost equally brief.

What you need to do :

	edit the Imakefile to reflect your system's setup with regard to where
	you will have the xtrek lib directory living, and where the
	font should go.

	remake the makefile (xmkmf) or "make Makefile"

	modify config.h to reflect changes to the Imakefile

	make install install.man

	GO FOR IT!

	Detailed documentation can be found in xtrekguide.{tex,ps}, but the
main things you need to do :

	xtrekd

	Status messages will be dumped out as the daemon loads the default
configuration. When it says 'Daemon ready',

	xtrek <machine-xtrekd-is-on>

in another window (or on another machine) to send a window request to the 
daemon. You will then recieve the xtrek window - choose a race, and have 
fun. Invite other players in or hit 'H' to turn on the robot horde (one 
robot maintained for all races).

	NOTES: 


		* xtrekd will exit if no players are active. Robots are 
			counted as active players.

		* On some machines or some setups, we're not sure which,
			you will need to explicitly set all defaults.
			Ala :

		     xtrek.boldfont:         6x10b
		     xtrek.font:             6x10
		     xtrek.reverseVideo:     off
		     xtrek.showShields:      on
		     xtrek.showStats:        on
		     xtrek.stats.geometry:   +0+655
		     xtrek.GAlertPattern:    0xf
		     xtrek.YAlertPattern:    0xa 0x5
		     xtrek.RAlertPattern:    0x0f 0x0f 0x0f 0x0f 0xf0 0xf0 0xf0 0xf0
		     xtrek.ralert:           red
		     xtrek.yalert:           yellow
		     xtrek.galert:           green
		     xtrek.border:           blue
		     xtrek.background:       black
		     xtrek.text:             white
		     xtrek.warning:          red
		     xtrek.unknown:          light grey
		     xtrek.me:               white

			Try to get by without them first, though.

		* the xtrek "client" has a concept of where the font "xtrek"
			will be installed so that it can attempt to insure
			that it is on the server fontpath when the game
			starts. If you don't see the font:

			* make sure it installed where FONTDIR points; insure
			that the Imakefile and config.h agree where it is.

			* see below if confusion still reigns

		In particular, if you get X errors involving X_Set_Fontpath
		this is a hint that FONTDIR is pointing somewhere bogus.

		* to generate fonts: the Imakefile provided will be able to
			generate and install fonts on MIT X11R4 and R5 systems.
			It is impossible to automatically intuit what system
			you may have, however, so you may need to install the
			font by hand. In that case:

			* OpenWindows/OpenLook:

				convertfont -b xtrek.bdf
				copy resulting xtrek.fb file to FONTDIR
				execute "bldfamily" in FONTDIR

			* DECWindows

				dxfc < xtrek.bdf > xtrek.pcf
				cp xtrek.pcf FONTDIR
				execute "dxmkfontdir" in FONTDIR
			
				DECWindows fonts tend to work in R5 systems, the 
				reverse is not true.

			* Something else? I have no idea what'll work. It is
				probably worth trying the "standard" method:

				bdftosnf < xtrek.bdf > xtrek.snf
				cp xtrek.snf FONTDIR
				execute "mkfontdir" in FONTDIR

				providing, of course, that whatever box you have
				comes with a bdftosnf/mkfontdir combo (R4 standard).

			* Still stuck? Break out the manual sets ... in particular,
				X terminals (which I have run Xtrek on) may require
				a different endian-ness flavor of font than your
				machine produces. Most vendors ship a bdftosnf which
				Does the Right Thing.

			* Still? Argh. Call a TechDroid. BTW, it is faster to do an

				xset fp+ FONTDIR
				xfd -fn xtrek

				to try to bring the font up than to start Xtrek.

		* BSD and SYSV systems often differ in how they handle signals.
		Therefore, there is code in input.c'setRedrawFlag to reset
		the update signal handler on USG and SYSV systems. I have
		no idea if this is the maximal set of machines that have
		the "problem" of non-sticky signal handlers. You may have
		to force the code in there to compile on your system. If you
		get "Alarm clock" bombs in the server (or similar), this is
		your problem.


	I am reasonably confident that this release represents a stable
xtrek. Over the last two years I have been answering mail about this game
and I think I have addressed all the problems I have seen in this release.
In particular, the only remaining floating point bug should be fixed in this
version.

	Also, this release hopefully represents my/our last involvement with
this game. The last three years have been fun at times and a royal pain
at others, but it is now time for someone else who is interested in
extending the game to pick it up. If you are interested, please contact
me.

		thanks,

			dan lovinger
			dl2n+@andrew.cmu.edu
			(for everyone here)
