What Is OLVWM:
------------
Olvwm (OPEN LOOK virtual window manager) is an ICCCM compliant window manager
supplied for use with the XView toolkit.  It is derived from olwm, the
OPEN LOOK window manager supplied with the XView release.  This version of
olvwm is based on version 3 of the XView release.

This is a completely new source distribution; there is no patch file to
get from version 2 of olvwm to version 3, as the patch file would have
been significantly larger than the new source.  You should archive
your old source before proceeding.

This program requires the following libraries, headers, fonts, etc.  If
you have version 3 of Sun's OpenWindows product, you will have everything
you need.  Otherwise, you'll need the following pieces of the XView3 release,
which is currently available from export.lcs.mit.edu in /contrib/xview3:

    1)  Version 3 of the olgx library (libolgx.a or it's shared-library
	counterpart).  This is available with the XView3 distribution
	on export.lcs.mit.edu in /contrib/xview3.  You can also get just
	the olgx library in /pub/R5untarred/contrib/lib/xview3/lib/libolgx;
	though it will require some work to get this to compile without
	the rest of the xview3 source.  This library will work on R4
	as well as R5.

    2)  OPEN LOOK fonts; by default, these fonts are already included in the
	FCS X Version 11 Release 4 and Release 5 distribution.  You will only
	need these fonts if you are using an older version of the server; they
	can be found in the contrib/toolkits/XView/fonts directory.

    3)  If you use the OPEN LOOK help mechanism, you will need the program
	called olwmslave.  This is also in the XView3 distribution as well
	as in /pub/R5untarred/contrib/lib/xview3/clients/olwmslave.  You
	do not *need* this program; if you don't have it then you will
	not be able to use the HELP key to get help about olvwm buttons, etc.
	In this case, you should make sure to set the RunSlaveProcess to
	False in your .Xdefaults file or you'll get annoying messages about
	olwmslave not being found.

Two man page for olvwm, olvwm.man and olvwmrc.man, can be found in this
directory.  These man pages discuss only features of olvwm not present in
olwm; the olwm man page (olwm.man) may also be found in this directory
should you need it.


Building OLVWM:
--------------

If you have Sun's OPENWINDOWS Version 3.0, the simplest way to make the
release is to use the Makefile.sunpro makefile.  Simply typing
    % make -f Makefile.sunpro
will compile olvwm; 
    % make -f Makefile.sunpro install
will install the binary and manual pages according to locations given at the
top of Makefile.sunpro.

If you prefer, you may use the Imakefile instead.  The Imakefile depends
upon the XView library configuration files being installed correctly.  Check
the top of Imakefile for some additional installation information.

When compiling, you will get messages in usermenu.c and olvwmrc.c that
a statement is not reached.  You may safely ignore this message.


Installation:
-------------

The following files are installed via a make install:

    olvwm -- placed into DESTDIR (if you use imake) or INSTALLDIR (if you
		use Makefile.sunpro)
    olvwm.man, olvwmrc.man -- placed into MANPATH (if you use imake) or
		MAN1DIR and MAN5DIR respectively (if you use Makefile.sunpro)
    olvwm.info -- placed into HELPDIR

See the desired Makefile for options on overriding this behaviour.


Reporting Bugs:
--------------
This code is not supported by Sun Microsystems in any way; please do not
use the standard xview bug report form for reporting bugs on this code.
Bugs may be reported to Scott Oaks (scott.oaks@East.Sun.COM), who will
try to fix bugs whenever he can.
