       fstat fileId ?item?|?stat arrayvar?
              Obtain status information about an open file.

              The following keys are used to identify data items:

              o atime - The time of last access.

              o ctime - The time of last file status change

              o dev - The device containing a directory  for  the
              file.  This value uniquely identifies the file sys-
              tem that contains the file.

              o gid - The group ID of the file's group.

              o ino - The  inode  number.   This  field  uniquely
              identifies the file in a given file system.

              o mode - The mode of the file (see the mknod system
              call).

              o mtime - Time when the data in the file  was  last
              modified.

              o nlink - The number of links to the file.

              o size - The file size in bytes.

              o tty  - If the file is associated with a terminal,
              then 1 otherwise 0.

              o type - The type of the  file  in  symbolic  form,
              which  is one of the following values: file, direc-
              tory, characterSpecial, blockSpecial,  fifo,  link,
              or socket.

              o uid - The user ID of the file's owner.

              If  one  of  these  keys is specified as item, then
              that data item is returned.

              If stat arrayvar is specified, then the information
              is  returned  in  the array arrrayvar.  Each of the
              above keys indexes an element of the array contain-
              ing the data.

              If  only  fileId  is specified, the command returns
              the data as a keyed list.

              The following value may be returned only if explic-
              itly  asked  for,  it will not be returned with the
              array or keyed list forms:

              o remotehost  -  If  fileId  is  a  TCP/IP   socket
              connection,  then a list is returned with the first
              element being the remote host IP address.   If  the
              remote  host  name  can be found, it is returned as
              the second element of the list.

              This command is provided by Extended Tcl.
