File: sather/README
Copyright (C) International Computer Science Institute, 1991
SEE COPYRIGHT NOTE AT END OF FILE.
                       
This is the top level directory for the Sather system. There are three
files in the "doc" sub-directory which may be useful for getting
started with Sather: The file "SUMMARY" gives a one page
description of the Sather project. The file "INSTALL" gives the
installation instructions for setting up the Sather directories. The
file "STARTING" provides a tutorial introduction to using the
Sather system and describes how individual users should set up their
environments.

The mailing list "sather@icsi.berkeley.edu" is for discussion of
Sather related topics. Use "sather-admin@icsi.berkeley.edu" to be put
on or off this list and to make bug reports about the compiler, the debugger,
the Sather libraries, the emacs environment, and the release itself.

The contents of this directory are:

Makefile: The top level makefile to build the Sather release. Use to
   compile the compiler, debugger and other programs. Don't touch it
   It is generated from Makefile.in and various templates in the 
   make subdirectory.
   For building, look at doc/INSTALL. 

bin.$SATHER_ENVI: This holds executables, archives and object files.
   For every installation platform there will be one, like bin.sun4, 
   bin.mips, bin.mipskr

compiler: Compiler classes and related material.

debugger: Debugger classes and related material.

doc: Documentation. The Sather language manual, the library style
   guide, the license agreement, differences from Eiffel, getting
   started, performance measurement results, submitting your classes
   to the Sather library, and installation instructions. 

emacs: The GNU emacs editing mode and mouse handling for source level 
   browsing and debugging.

etc: Miscellaneous Sather related items and sample files. Contains
   example ".sather" files for compiling library test code.

lib: The Sather library classes.

man: Manual entries for "cs" and "gc".

sac: Sather to C interface generator.

sys: System related code needed by the compiler.

-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
This file is part of the Sather distribution.
Author: Stephen M. Omohundro
Changes: Heinz Schmidt, May 30 09:47 1991                        
Copyright (C) International Computer Science Institute, 1991

COPYRIGHT NOTICE: This file is provided "AS IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY
and is subject to the terms of the SATHER LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC
LICENSE contained in the file: "sather/doc/license.txt" of the Sather
distribution. The license is also available from ICSI, 1947 Center
St., Suite 600, Berkeley CA 94704, USA.

* HISTORY:
* Last edited: Feb 20 21:56 1992 (hws)
* Created: Mon Aug 27 11:27:19 1990 (om)

Changes: Heinz W. Schmidt (hws@csis.dit.csiro.au)
(c) Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO),
Australia, 1992, 1993.
The modifications are provided "AS IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY and are subject
to the terms of the SATHER LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENCE referred to above.
 
