    This is ispell version 3.1, an interactive spelling checker.

Contents of this README file:

    What Is Ispell and Why Do I Want It?
    What's New in This Version?
    Where Can I Get Ispell?
    OK, How Do I Install It?
    Who Wrote Ispell?
    Where Do I Send Bug Reports?
    How Long Does It Take to Make Dictionaries?
    Special Installation Notes for Certain Machines:

------------------------------------------------------------------------

What Is Ispell and Why Do I Want It?

    Ispell is a fast screen-oriented spelling checker that shows you
    your errors in the context of the original file, and suggests possible
    corrections when it can figure them out.  Compared to UNIX spell, it
    is faster and much easier to use.  Ispell can also handle languages
    other than English.
    
What's New in This Version?

    Compared to ispell versions 2 and 4.0 (the latter was the
    short-lived Gnu version), ispell 3.1 contains many new features,
    notably TeX support, international language support, and handling
    of prefixes as well as suffixes.  Compared to ispell version 3.0,
    ispell 3.1 has many bug fixes, a number of minor improvements, and
    vastly improved support for multiple languages.

    The only truly important difference between 3.0 and 3.1 is in the
    format of the "defstringtype" and "altstringtype" statements,
    which now require a deformatter argument.  Existing affix files
    will have to be converted.  See ispell.4 for documentation, or
    deutsch.aff for an extended example.  The conversion is very easy
    to do.  All affix files distributed with ispell have already been
    converted.

    The complete list of bug fixes and improvements is too long to
    include here (and besides, I'm too overworked to create it).
    However, users of ispell 2.0 and ispell 4.0 should note that the
    "x" and "q" commands have been interchanged.

Where Can I Get Ispell?

    The current version of ispell is available for anonymous ftp from
    ftp.cs.ucla.edu (131.179.128.34) or ftp.math.orst.edu
    (128.193.80.160), in the pub/ispell-3.1 directory.  You should
    retrieve all files in that directory.  Patches will be posted to
    comp.sources.bugs and also placed in the ftp directory.

    A number of ftp mirror sites also store ispell.  Check Archie for
    "ispell-3.1" to find a site near you.
    
    Ispell comes with English dictionaries.  For other languages,
    check the "Where" file in the "languages" subdirectory for hints
    on where to find dictionaries.

OK, How Do I Install It?

    Ispell is quite portable (thanks to many people).  If you speak
    American English and have a BSD-like system, you may be able to
    get away with simply typing "make all" to finish unpacking
    the kit and make ispell and a dictionary, all configured to be
    installed in /usr/local/*.  If you have a USG (System V) system,
    you will at least have to copy "local.h.samp" to "local.h", then
    add "#define USG" to local.h before compiling.  Be sure you have
    at least 10 MB of free space in /tmp, or set your TMPDIR
    environment variable to point somewhere with that much space.

    For more complex installations, you will have to create a fancier
    local.h file.  All customization of ispell 3.1, even for the
    Makefile, is done by creating or editing the file "local.h" to
    override the default definitions of certain variables.  The most
    common changes will be to the LANGUAGES variable (to set the
    languages; see also the Makefiles in the various language
    subdirectories), CC (to choose gcc), and BINDIR through MAN4DIR
    (to control where ispell is installed).  There are many other
    configuration parameters; see config.X for the complete list and
    further instructions.  *DO NOT* make changes to config.X or to any
    of the Makefiles.  Anything you define in "local.h" will override
    definitions in those files.

    After all edits, you are ready to compile ispell.  Make sure you
    have set your TMPDIR environment variable, and then type
    "make all".  This will compile all the programs, put the
    dictionaries together, and build the hash file.

    If you chose a "+" version of the dictionary (the LANGUAGES macro
    in config.X), expect this first make to run for quite a while
    (usually about half an hour, but as much as 24 hours on a very
    limited machine) because of the munchlist step.  If you chose a
    non-plus version, the make will not take long.  The munchlist step
    will also take a *lot* of disk space (see the table below for more
    information), so be sure to set TMPDIR in your environment to
    point to someplace with lots of room.

    After your first make completes, you are ready to install ispell.
    The standard "make install" will install ispell, the auxiliary
    programs and scripts, the manual page, and the dictionary hash
    file, all in the directories you have chosen for them.  This
    usually has to be done as root, and on some systems you will not
    be able to redirect the output to a file.  (If you're the careful
    sort, you'll check the output of "make -n install" first to be
    sure there are no hidden surprises.)  If you have emacs, note that
    the installation process does not modify the top-level Info menu
    to include ispell; you must do this by hand if you want ispell to
    appear in the top-level menu.  The installation process may
    clobber emacs-related files from ispell 4.0.  If you don't
    consider this a feature, you should preserve them first.

    As well as the standard "make clean" and "make realclean" targets,
    there is also a "make dictclean" target which will get rid of
    constructed dictionary files such as "english.med+".  This is a
    separate target because of the time it takes to build
    dictionaries.

    Finally, there is a directory named "addons", which contains shar
    kits for ispell helper programs that were generously written by
    other people.  These are not copyrighted or supported by the
    ispell maintainer.  Contact the original authors (listed in README
    files in the kits) for more information.

Who Wrote Ispell?

    Ispell is a very old program.  The original was written in PDP-10
    assembly in 1971, by R. E. Gorin.  The C version was written by
    Pace Willisson of MIT.  Walt Buehring of Texas Instruments added
    the emacs interface and posted it to the net.  Geoff Kuenning
    added the international support and created the current posting.
    Many, many other people contributed to the current version; a
    complete list (with a much more detailed history) can be found in
    the file "Contributors".

Where Do I Send Bug Reports?

    Most ispell bug reports, except bugs related to the emacs-lisp
    interface, should be sent to "ispell-bugs@itcorp.com".  Bugs in
    the emacs interface (ispell.el) should be sent to
    "ispell-el-bugs@itcorp.com".  If you're not sure which address to
    use, send your report to "ispell-bugs@itcorp.com" and I'll sort it
    out from there.

    Bugs in add-on packages (found in the "addons" subdirectory)
    should not be sent to itcorp.com.  Instead, send reports to the
    developers of those packages (see the README file for the package
    you are using).

How Long Does It Take to Make Dictionaries?

    The following tables give approximate timings and peak disk usage
    for making each of the three augmented English dictionaries (the
    so-called "plus" versions).  The timings were collected on an
    unloaded 68040.  Your mileage may vary.

    Using EXTRADICT=/usr/dict/words:

			Time to build	Peak temp space	Final size

	english.sml+	30 minutes	7.1M		306K
	english.med+	35 minutes	8.8M		359K
	english.lrg+	60 minutes	10.7M		680K

    Using EXTRADICT=/usr/dict/words and /usr/dict/web2:

			Time to build	Peak temp space	Final size

	english.sml+	2-1/2 hours	19.5M		2243K
	english.med+	2-1/2 hours	19.6M		2265K
	english.lrg+	3 hours		20.7M		2347K

    The peak disk usage occurs fairly early in the munching process.
    When creating english.lrg+ with /usr/dict/web2, the peak was
    reached within 30 minutes.  When web2 was omitted, the peak was
    always reached within 1/4 of the total running time of munchlist.
    Again, remember that these times will vary depending on your load
    and your machine's power.

Special Installation Notes for Certain Machines:

    Although I have tried to avoid putting in specific machine
    dependencies as a general rule, some machine-specific #defines
    will be found at the end of config.X.

    If you get lots of warnings when compiling term.c, check to be
    sure that you have correctly defined SIGNAL_TYPE in your local.h.

    Some versions of ISC Unix have TIOCGWINSZ defined even though it's
    not supported and the necessary structures are not present.  The
    solution is to add "#undef TIOCGWINSZ" in your local.h.

    Some versions of SCO Unix define "struct winsize" conditionally.
    The solution is to add "#define _IBCS2" in your local.h.

    Some versions of SCO Unix define "struct winsize" in a wierd
    place.  Add #includes of <sys/stream.h> and <sys/ptem.h> to your
    local.h to get around this.

    Suns running 4.1.1 also have a bug in sort which causes core dumps
    when running munchlist.  Sun users who have the System 5 option
    can work around this bug by making sure that /usr/5bin precedes
    /usr/bin in their path, so that /usr/5bin/sort is used by
    munchlist.

    The AIX RS6000 should use -lcurses for TERMLIB, rather than -ltermcap.

    Amiga users will need to #define fork vfork.  Other than this,
    ispell should compile using gcc on the Amiga.

    There have been reports that some BSD releases don't properly
    declare "extern int errno" in errno.h.  If you suffer from this
    problem, you'll have to add your own declaration in your local.h.

    There are known problems on Ultrix with the interaction between
    ispell and some versions elm on Ultrix.  You may be able to fix
    this by making sure USG is undefined, or you may have to make more
    extensive changes to term.c to cause it to use the "termios"
    interface instead of the "termio" one.

    The DEC Alpha and Cray have 64-bit longs.  Make sure you define
    MASKTYPE_WIDTH as 64 for these machines.

    Although ispell is not officially supported on MS-DOS, there are a
    couple of #defines that you might find useful if you want to do
    such a thing.  Check the end of config.X

    HP systems will need C compiler patch PHSS_3015 to compile ispell
    correctly.  The symptom of the wrong compiler is incorrect
    highlighting of misspelled words.  Gcc will also compile ispell
    correctly on HP systems.
