To support dynamic loading on the pmax you have to add the `-G 0' flag
to the UCFLAGS and 

-G 0 -T 10000000 -Wl,-D,12000000 -x

to the ULDFLAGS to get things to compile with the text and data
segments close enough together to jump between. (The -W stuff passes a
-D flag on to ld but is needed to avoid having this flag interpreted
as a C preprocessor define.)

In addition, code that is to be loaded dynamically must be compiled
with the `-G 0' flag.

If you want to display xlispstat on a DECstation running ULTRIX 4.0
you may run into two bugs in the ULTRIX X servers:

	On monochrome 3100's plot-points produces strange-looking
	symbols. This is caused by a bug in the server response to an
	XDrawPoints request.

	On greyscale 5000's (and possibly other machines) exiting
	from xlispstat causes an infinite loop of error messages.
	This is due to a bug in handling XFreeColor requests.

To fix these problems, uncomment the defines of the variables
SERVER_COLOR_FREE_PROBLEM and DRAWPOINTSBUG in the file
StX11options.h.

If you plan on using DEC's dxwm window manager there is another
problem: modal dialog windows do not appear. This seems to be due to
lack of ICCCM compliance in dxwm (and improper ICCCM compliance in
xlispstat). You can cure this by turning ICCCM compliance off in
xlispstat. You can do this in three ways:

	1) You can set USE_ICCCM_DEFAULT to FALSE in StX11options.h and
	recompile the system.

	2) You can set the icccm resource to off with a line like

		xlisp*icccm: off

	in the .Xdefaults file

	3) You can use the expression

		(x11-options :icccm nil)

	in xlispstat.

If you are only going to use xlispstat on DECstations runing dxwm then
1) is probably the simplest choice. If you may display xlispstat on
other workstations or other window managers then it may be better to
set the icccm resource in a resource file used when dxwm starts up.

The version of StX11options.h provided in this directory here should
work for a DECstation running Ultrix 4.0 and the dxwm window manager.
