   The files in this directory can be used to make DGD 1.0.a7 work with the
LPmud 2.4.5 mudlib.  A few of them may need some adjustments to work with
later versions of DGD, and there are a number of known bugs that I haven't
bothered to fix, and I'm sure there must be ones I don't know about as well.
I present this as an example, and do not encourage anyone to actually start
a mud with it.

   To be able to run with the 2.4.5 mudlib, an auto object is used that
simulates those efuns present in the LPmud 3.1.2 gamedriver, as well as
inventories and actions for objects.  The 3.1.2 gamedriver + 2.4.5 mudlib
simulation is fairly close to the original, and includes a number of the
original bugs.  The 2.4.5 mudlib itself is not included.  It can be ftp'ed
from ftp.cd.chalmers.se, file /pub/lpmud/mudlib.2.4.5/2.4.5.tar.Z .

   Make sure that the mudlib path in the lpmud config file and in
dgd/src/lpc/Makefile is set correctly before compiling.  If something goes
wrong during precompiling of LPC objects, the C files will not be removed
automatically; type "make clean" in the dgd/src/lpc directory before you
attempt to precompile the objects again.

Makefile		Move these files to the dgd/src/lpc directory if you
list			want to compile the auto object to C (not required,
			and it's easier to do without).

lpmud			The lpmud config file.  Don't forget to set the mudlib
			path correctly BEFORE compiling.

dgd			The directory containing the files that constitute the
			auto object, the driver object and a few others.  Move
			this directory to the root directory of the mudlib.

diff.a6-a7		Differences between the 2.4.5 simulation for 1.0.a6 and
			1.0.a7.  If you're upgrading from the previous version,
			apply these patches in the mudlib root directory; also
			copy the files dgd/lib/reset.h, dgd/lib/reset.c and
			dgd/sys/hname.c.

diffs			Diffs for some 2.4.5 mudlib files in the directories
			/obj and /room.  Apply these if you are starting with
			a pure 2.4.5 mudlib.

doc/LPC/closures	Some info about the simulated lambda closures, which
			are included in the auto object.

convert.c		A program to convert LPmud 3.1.2 save files to DGD save
			files.

hname.c			A program that acts like the hname program for 3.1.2.
			It will login as an invisible player on the mud, and
			answer queries about hostnames.  Compile it to hname.

rundgd			A shell script to run the gamedriver with, like
			restart_mud for LPmud 3.1.2.
