This is version 1.5 of the BLT library.  It is an extension to 
Tk toolkit (it requires no patching of the Tcl or Tk libraries).  

The BLT toolkit contains the following widgets/commands:

1) Drag-n-drop command: blt_drag&drop
	Updated version of Michael McLennan's drag and drop command
	(it's still maintained by Michael). 

2) Hypertext widget: blt_htext
	Allows text and Tk widgets to combined in a single scroll-able 
	window.

3) Busy window: blt_busy
	For handling user-interaction when the application is "busy".
	Manages an invisible "busy" window which prevents further 
	user device (keyboard, mouse, button, etc.) interactions.
	Also provides a different cursor which supersedes application
	cursors.

4) Bitmap command: blt_bitmap
	Lets you read and write bitmaps from Tcl. Can define X bitmaps  
	and create bitmaps from text strings.  Other options query any 
        loaded X bitmap.

5) Background "exec" command: blt_bgexec
	Like "exec ... &", but collects the output of the detached 
	UNIX subprocesses and sets a Tcl variable upon their completion.
	Can be used with "tkwait variable" to handle application's 
	expose events, etc. while waiting for subprocesses to finish.  

6) Table geometry manager: blt_table
	Specify window placements as table row,column positions. Also
	has many options for placing constraints on window resizes.

7) Barchart widget: blt_barchart
	
8) XY graph widget: blt_graph

9) Window option command: blt_win
	Lets you raise, lower, map, or, unmap any window.  

10) Watch commands: blt_watch
	Lets you specify Tcl procedures to be run before and/or
	after every Tcl command.  May be used for logging,
	tracing, profiling, or debugging or Tcl code.

11) Simple command trace: blt_debug
	Simply prints out each Tcl command before it's executed.  

12) Cutbuffer and bell commands: blt_cutbuffer, blt_bell
	The commands are derived from the "bellcut" extensions and are 
	provided as a convenience.  Credit should go to the author(s) 
	(I can't remember who they are. Sorry) for this work.
